---
slug: 2025-09-08-blackout
title: "Power Outage at NIG on September 8, 2025 (Restored)"
tags:
  - maintenance
date: 2025-09-08
---

From around 13:40 on Friday, September 5, 2025, a lightning strike associated with a typhoon directly hit NIG, causing a power outage.
As a result, the supercomputer executed an automatic shutdown, and the entire NIG supercomputer system was halted.
Since this power outage was classified as an electrical accident due to lightning, power restoration required inspection procedures, which prolonged the outage.

Recovery work for the supercomputer began on Monday, September 8, and login services were resumed at 12:00 on Tuesday, September 9, except for some systems.
(For dedicated VMs that had not been confirmed to be running as of 12:00 on September 9, all of them were successfully restarted by 15:00 on the same day.)

<!-- truncate -->

## Incident and Recovery Status

- Friday, September 5, 2025, around 13:40 – Power outage occurred, supercomputer shut down.
- Tuesday, September 9, 2025, 12:00 – Login service resumed for the General Analysis Section and the Personal Genome Analysis Section.

  - Some dedicated VMs still remained unbooted.
- Wednesday, September 10, 2025, 15:30 – All VMs successfully started.

## Scope of Impact

- External networks, etc.
  - <del>Out of service</del> Restored at 12:00 on Tuesday, September 9, 2025.
- NIG Supercomputer – General Analysis Section
  - <del>Out of service</del> Restored at 12:00 on Tuesday, September 9, 2025.
- NIG Supercomputer – Personal Genome Analysis Section
  - <del>Out of service</del> Restored at 12:00 on Tuesday, September 9, 2025.
  - <del>Some dedicated VMs had not yet been confirmed to boot and were being addressed in sequence.</del>
  - Wednesday, September 10, 2025, 15:00 – Startup completed for VMs that had not been running.
- DDBJ services
  - <del>Out of service</del> Services are being restored in sequence. For details, please refer to:
    - [https://www.ddbj.nig.ac.jp/news/en/2025-09-05-e.html](https://www.ddbj.nig.ac.jp/news/en/2025-09-05-e.html)



:::caution
In the notice issued on September 9, the supercomputer recovery time was incorrectly stated as:

“Restored at 12:00 on Monday, September 8, 2025.”

The correct statement is:

“Restored at 12:00 on Tuesday, September 9, 2025.”

We sincerely apologize for this error and issue this correction.

::: 
